[Music]
hello thank you for watching my name is
paa de
Mayo I I'm speaking today in the contest
in the context of political abuses of
Psychiatry about uh psychological
coercion and mental health a systems
view I want to thank the organizer thank
you enrik for uh the opportunity
to um present some uh views and
commentaries on some very important
issues that are concerning us all again
PA de Mayo I'm a research scholar with
Ronin Institute I'm also a member of
Igor um in talk I expand the canonical
perspective I try to expand the
canonical perspective on the subject of
political or psych abuses of Psychiatry
to include wider cases of psychological
abuse so basically what I'm trying to
say here is
that uh not only we are looking at uh
political abuses of
Psychiatry or Psychiatry abuses for
political needs but also um
psychological abuse these are this
should be viewed in the context of wider
much more widespread political and
psychological abuse coercion and illegal
means are used to manipulate society and
individuals by unknown agency so this is
a reality that we are facing there are
dynamics which
are seeded are are
uh constructed into uh our
systems and then I am presenting this uh
Topic in the context of artificial
intelligent information
technology so in the
title I say Okay a systems view what is
a systems
view here I use an illustration for from
a system thinking published in a journal
um creative commments reuse
permitted uh to show that the system
view is one
that exposes systemic
complexity
dependencies a lot of uh Dynamics going
on and um these dependencies may be also
hidden not apparent so here they're
visible represented by arrows but
um actually a lot of these Dynamics may
not be
immediately
discernable there are paradoxes so a
system a complex system is uh contains
uh conflicting truths so two things
which are not coinciding or not in
agreement to axioms or facts or aspects
of realities May coexist and they both
be
true uh even if they are um not aligned
so system view complex system view taken
as a whole can be mind
wracking
um complexity in as it is exposed by a
system view these complexities can
actually be exploited so people say oh
yeah you know this is because of that
because of that but in fact
there could be uh designed abuse could
be designed to fit or appear as uh
complex Dynamics when it is not so this
only a systems uh thinker can see that
how that is
[Music]
done
so political and psychological
abuse psychiatric and psychological
abuse does not just take place in
certain regimes or in political
circumstances it can be subtle go
undetect it and it can be very
widespread uh there are no instruments
to identify and address psychological
abuse you can be very complex you can
have various layers of complexity layers
of agency layers of abuse a lot of
things going on all together in the
system layers of coercion layers of
psychology they're all
entangled uh it aims to create
psychological
instability so psychological abuse aims
to create instability insecurity in
individuals that may have individual to
say who you know individuals that may
have the potential to bring change or
that otherwise not conforming to
stereotypes in the talk I will briefly
try to characterize who could be the
targets of psychological abuse and why
in the motives it can be
devastating so political abuses of
Psychiatry is well defined misuse of
Psychiatry including diagnosis detention
and treatment for the purpose of
obstructing the human rights of
individuals and or
groups the Abus of psychology in
coercion and manipulation is more subtle
so psychological abuse is
much less well defined and much more
common psychological abuse can have huge
impact on mental health of individuals
and
communities indicatively the contents of
this talk will cover mapping the
complexity trying to say that complexity
itself can make people mentally unwell
or
uncomfortable
um complexity can drive anyone insane um
it really does challenge our cognitive
uh
limits widening the context so I'm
trying to say okay psychiatric abuses
for political as do belong to a
wider
um spectrum of psychological abuses
which is much more common and subtle and
less
visible example of Psy olical abuse
techniques in use I discuss some of the
ways this is done the the role of
artificial intelligence and information
[Music]
systems and uh we'll see you know how
sometimes complexity can or must be
handled pointing to future
work so I'm a research about me I'm a
I'm a researcher in Information
Technology primarily
uh as the information technology became
more complicated I started studying
system complex systems uh in particular
soci Technical
Systems uh soci Technical Systems are
much more complex than Technical Systems
by the way because of the
psychology and I apply my understanding
of systems to a wide range of fields
including complimentary
Health complimentary medicine and this
is where
mental health becomes also part of my uh
fields of
application but mental health really is
relevant to everyone um is not just
[Music]
um mental health is not something
abstract everyone everything depends on
our mental health even our ability to
stay alive from morning to evening
because the moment we lose our mental
health or balance um
we uh start posing a risk to ourselves
like you know you can you can put foot
wrong because you your cognition has
wobbled in that moment or you have not
been 100% lucid and cause harm or even
die so mental health uh your ability to
stay balanced and centered uh is
relevant to
everyone and in particular to
researchers
because they're get you know researchers
can easily get lost in the complexities
um in particular mental health is
relevant to complex system researchers I
must say but is also relevant to
the information systems engineers and
designers because information systems
are models of uh information processing
and cognition so what we learned from
psychology and mental health um applies
to information system I hope you
appreciate the circularity of mental
health with information
system the topic of uh today's talk and
the topic of
the uh context is is
actually interesting to me because it
has a lot of societal implications as a
citizen as a researchers in privacy the
human right and human rights and uh and
the research scholarship so what what I
do and what we do as researchers
um must serve Humanity must be used to
serve humanity and help to solve
problems I would like to apologize in
advance for the poor uh for possible
sounds in the background and some
imperfection in the
recording or in the slides hopefully
this is going to be audible enough and
clear enough so General disclaimer not
everyone may be able to immediately make
sense of everything in this talk the
talk only introduces made the some main
points for discussion it does not
exhaust them take what you can uh takes
a lot of homework to get the big picture
and once you get the big picture you may
need some counseling so there
is uh direct uh correlation between
system complex systems system View and
mental health
a complex systems uh once understood and
processed in their entirety or is as
completely as extensively as as as
required sometimes can um exceed the
ability the cognitive and emotional
ability to
cope um so I mean this is supposed to be
a joke but it's also quite true uh all
those areas the dramas
that we touch upon when we discuss
psychological Beauties they're very
serious but there is a potentially a bit
of a funny side uh which may be funnier
to some than to
others the context um in
theory we live in a civilized
Information Society promoting CR ethical
Val values openness transparency civic
responsibility Progressive thinking
human
rights all of this this is supposed to
be what human society is doing nowadays
but in
reality um everyone is potentially the
target of aggressive adversarial tactics
uh such as information test they we are
we are potential targets of information
Ts for the purpose of
commercial
um
aims uh advertising or someone is trying
to sell us something or influence our
consumer Behavior but they're also uh
politically used to establish certain
Dynamics and narratives and to influence
behavior and psychologies of groups of
individuals uh in the talk we're going
to look at some of the methods that
psychological abuse is carried out so
we have seen in the context of this
uh uh
Workshop that there are cases and in
literature also we see in literature
there is well documented cases
[Music]
of abuses of psychiatry in political
cont context from the USSR and China and
in total totalitarian
regimes but uh to bring balance we
should also look at the to bring balance
to this view there there
is Abus of psychiatric history
throughout history for example the Nazis
were
experts but also South Africa during
aparate Yugoslavia Somalia Sudan just to
bring up some names and we must
acknowledge that human history is built
on on
abuse War genocide murder deceit so
there's been no country or very few
countries and uh parts of History which
have been exempt from abuse um
psychiatric and psychological abuses are
part of this
agenda so interestingly the perpetrators
of psychological crimes today do not
leave traces however for history to uh
learn from so interestingly I think we
should note in addition to the
well-known examples the examples of
psychiatric abuse in the Nazi era there
is some excellent uh body
work here I only note a couple of papers
by Mr R
st um who documents systematically in a
very um humane way the what what has
happened in Psychiatry how Psychiatry
was used by the
nais uh worth
reading so abusers nowadays can be found
in any race ethnicity religion
country political abusers tend to commit
crimes in the open so you know this is
the party this is the ruling party this
is the political agenda uh and this is
they're going to do psychiatry to get
rid of their opponents so this is
relatively straightforward but
psychological abusers commit crimes
without leaving any trace of often
covering up disguising their tracks very
carefully or even using moral and
legislative grounds as
justification so they actually think
they're doing everyone a favor by
abusing obviously this is deviated um
view but it's very widespread and um a
common trait among abusers that they
rely on the acquisition of personal
information uh which then they leverage
and misuse to pursue their
goals they may well be educated have key
positions they could be scientists
researchers
influencers uh TV
personalities uh they could be deviated
intelligence so the intelligence is like
you know people who acquire information
illegally and use it to cers and
manipulate hinder and harm now we're not
talking about the legitimate use of
intelligence here but there is a a very
thin line and and who knows and
um and it's very difficult to tell uh
this is part of the problem in
understanding psychological abuse when
it's done in a covert
way so psychological abusers have hidden
agendas and ex can exhibit any of the
following extreme they can be extremist
manipulative overt make use of
surveillance surveillance but they may
be informant and they may even be
informant with without their knowledge
they may not know they're just someone
is piggy bagging on them we will see uh
why in a
moment so one of the common the other
common trait is that they're completely
unethical and dishonest so
they do not need permission to acquire a
misuse information they use drugs they
will a drug subject that they want to
extract information from they may
torture or may simply deceive they will
tell them something to make them say
something that then they going to use or
misuse rather so but the acquisition of
information is
unlawful uh or uh obtain uh using deceit
or torture or unlawful means they use
information out of
context so they will only use the part
of the information that they interested
in using they're not going to use
information in in a in a more complete
and they're not they're going to only
take things out context to make their
point they hide do not disclose how the
information is acquired for example um
especially when it's acquired
illegitimately so especially say oh yeah
you know we gave them a drug
and that's how we know this and you know
they wouldn't say
that they use the information that they
have required to make a subject
psychologically unstable and this is the
Criminal part so you know they they
really not only acquire information
unlawfully which is bad enough but they
will also use that
information to to destabilize and affect
the mental health of the individual they
do not care about the emotional and
mental health in fact they on the
contrary they they use they they they
are using what the you know the
information that they acquire to uh uh
carry out psychological abuse they say
that that is the that is precisely what
they do they try to influence people's
psychology mental state and emotional
state and they do not see the problem
with psychological abuse at all they
think it's perfectly fine um so which is
the most dangerous totalitarian regime
that lock up individuals dis centers uh
to Psychiatry Awards using Psychiatry so
they there is cruelty to individual for
a political motive is quite clear and
the agency is known we know it's the
regime or is the Hun who's doing that to
the particular individual and why we
know they're doing it because they
disagree with their political views we
also have societies that elevate
Psychopaths to leadership positions
um they reward unethical people or
unworthy people uh and they elevate them
and we know that who's doing it
sometimes and in in later on in the talk
we're looking at the motives you know we
we also know
why sometimes but the agency is known
Society you know um Hitler was elected
democratically I I
hear oh so which is most dangerous this
to totalitarian regime that locks up the
the center or the society that elevates
psychopath and makes them into leader
and saying how good they are
four which is the case that interests me
most the use of psychology surveillance
to gather intelligence and use it in
such a way to cause mental illness to
another to an
individual for a range of motives that
we're going to look at
later
whereby the agency is unknown so we
don't know there is no way of telling
who's doing
it um but we know that it takes
place so which of these is the most
dangerous for me the case which is the
most dangerous because it's the most
subtle and
undetectable is
here talking about agency is someone
really out there to get you well
sometimes circumstances can be mind
wrecking so things go wrong all all at
the same time without anyone in
particular orchestrating
it uh we accept that the world is
sometimes doesn't work the way we
expected to or the universe is trying to
tell something or everything is wrong
this is all accepted but
sometime we can we can be sure that
someone is out there to uh
to get you in the sense
of someone is trying to um Carry Out
psychological coercion for example you
go somewhere and someone is looking at
their phone and is saying oh you know
before you when you arrive they say oh
your Fame proceedes you and you can see
that they received the message on the
phone and they look at you and they say
oh you know I just received a message
about you and you're famous and so and
so then okay you ignore that and you say
I don't know who it is what he's trying
to say but then when you go to another
place that happens to another place with
another person someone else is saying oh
you know Fame proceeds you and they
receive a message on their phone so you
know if this happens repeatedly then you
can be sure that there is someone who is
intercepting uh your your movements who
has information about you and they are
making sure that that you know that they
have information about you and that they
are
uh sharing it or spreading it using some
communication
meanss and this is likely to drive
somebody matad it is likely to have an
impact on somebody's well-being and
mental health if it happens uh more than
once once could be a joke bad joke uh
when it happens repeatedly in multiple
contexts with different
consequences um at different levels of
risk um exposing the person involved in
the bad joke different levels of risk
then it becomes a CME so there is a
chapter called paranoia versus
Reasonable Suspicion so when when when
when are you paranoid and when you're
just being uh alerted that there's maybe
something going on this is something for
everyone to uh become aware
of just because you're paranoid doesn't
mean that they aren't after you uh this
is a important thing to remember and we
have to apply discernment allowing for
multiple scenarios so it could be that
it could be that the the world is
difficult place and things go wrong all
at the same time and someone
is
uh spying on you and using the
information they acquire about you to
play a bad joke and try to
psychologically uh coers you into
whatever is that you need to figure out
C that they're trying to do and why but
it's all
illegal so what mental health sensitive
intelligent people and emotionally
vulnerable people uh everyone is
emotionally
vulnerable uh the the official figure
that I found I don't know which year it
says that 5% of the world population use
antis psychotic drugs but um uh we know
for a fact that it's actually many more
everyone going to work in the city in
London New York or Tokyo is likely to to
take some medication some point to keep
their uh
sanity so everyone there Society life
conditioned Society are very oppressive
very threatening everyone suffers from
some degree of psychological abuse and
to cope people take medicine really to
make them accept and uh not be too
distressed and live and function under
certain conditions
so some individuals may be more
vulnerable than others in particular we
have neurodiverse people people with the
enhanced perception or different degrees
of cognition intelligence IQ um so the
unknown deviated adversarial agency
these people that we don't know who they
are they actually know how to exploit
their their vulnerability so they are
criminals and
they they know how to exploit your uh
vulnerability to crack uh so this is
they do not hesitate they
professionals
um psychological abuse and coercion are
observable but they often go undetected
so uh because because psychological
abuse is fabricated by someone that we
don't know in a way that is not always
obvious and you know it takes quite a
lot of detective work to see
it and normal people have got other
concerns they have to go about their
their life to stay alive themselves they
don't have time to go and study who's
who is playing which game which
psychological game with whom and why so
it gets ignored and but also because
abusive and coercive behavior is built
in the fabric of society throughout
history so entire countries empires have
been built on abuse and cursion so what
what's new you know companies
corporations um stock market it's all
designed to function with that abusive
and cursive Dynamic so this is just the
world we're looking at so uh we're kind
of there is certain accept that that
psychological abuse is is okay uh and
it's actually cannot be seen or is not
understood not studied
not
um is kind of accepted also
nobody has a problem or a few people
have a problem but I have a problem but
I don't really know I want talk to about
it so this is why today I jumped at the
opportunity of giving a talk on the
subject modern society is evolving to
understand uh that psychological abuse
may be a problem it's not healthy but he
hasn't figured out how to address
it so the use of psychiatric and
psychology for political aims does not
just take place in totalitarian regimes
this is what I'm trying to bring up
today political use of Psychiatry can
benefit from being understood in a wider
context of psychological manipulation so
Psychiatry political abuse of Psychiatry
is just an aspect of wider problem of
psychological abuse and uh I'm
suggesting that a library of wider
representative cases of psychological
abuse including Psy abuse can be useful
to uh expand this
perspective so examples of psychological
manipulation
techniques uh gaslighting confounding
mind wrecking intimidation peer pressure
cognitive dissonance
misrepresentation they're all uh
reasonably well understood and they're
used to reduce confidence create
disorientation demotivate promote
disengagement ultimately manipulate
individual and the group the community
that the individuals belong to
um apart from peer pressure which is
quite common I'm
briefly presenting this technique
gaslighting also called coercive control
referred to referred to as extreme
psychological manipulation to commit an
individual to a psychiatric institution
or cause mental illness with the intent
to
brainwash uh literature identifies four
types of gas gas lighting which I didn't
have the time to uh present but anyone
can look them up and discuss
them cognitive dissonance psychological
cognitive phenomenon discomfort the
person feels when their behavior does
not align with their values or beliefs
or discomfort arising from the
conflicting information so cognitive
dissonance can lead to mind and
personality split and schizophrenia so
what I think we should remember is that
cognitive Nance is a response to
conflicting information or conflicting
conflict between information and
behavior and it can be a fact of life
like is not necessarily deliberately
inflicted by any agency so uh that's the
way things are in the world and it may
impact some individuals more than others
and we may have to cope and learn how to
cope with
with cognitive dissonance in our lives
to recognize it and cod doxography is a
technique used to harmonize information
where is uh discordant uh to make it
more
acceptable to to make the narrative and
the presentation of a certain fact or
set of facts more harmonious and more
homogeneous however doxography can be
abused to uh provide to influence
uh acceptance uh of certain narratives
which are deliberately false so once you
provide
so one of the coping mechanisms for uh
of human beings when they're confronted
with cognitive dissonance is to uh
bridge and to create a version of the
the reality which
is not only processible from an
information processing viewpoint but
also emotionally acceptable so there are
certain certain things which are really
too disturbing and either we learn how
to ignore them or to live with them uh
and sometimes to create a version of
reality which Bridges the you know the
discordant bit is uh is done but in
psychological abuse uh can use this
techniques or techniques based on
theography to uh to
persuade and
manipulate so confounding uh in
statistics confounding factors are
unrelated Association so we know that in
a given set of uh there is a set values
and some of these values may not be
logically consistent or not belong or
not be useful to the analysis therefore
they're considered confounding factors
and there are several stat itical
techniques to identify and remove the
confounding factors or handle them or
sometimes to use them to obtain or
manipulate certain results so
confounding has a a role in statistics
but in psychological manipulation
confounding is actually used to cause
surprise or confusion um or to mix up
reality
so uh polit uh psychological abuse uses
confounding techniques to create
confusion uh in the mind of the person
they're
targeting and um and this is done
routinely now confounded
again uh can be a effect of life so we
know that some reality is
conflicting and
Truth can be confounded so there are
multiple truths which are not aligned or
not uh harmonized but they're all TRS
these are paradoxes this is these things
exist there are a lot of things which is
a lot of examples you have criminals who
are charitable donors you have people
who intend to harm and they they show
kindness to get your trust you have
family members friends or associate who
play uh emotion with your emotions
because they're
insecure uh and um you do you do not
know what to make of the situations and
become emotionally unstable yourself
when once you realize
so we need to learn how to recognize and
accept this uh you know confounding
factors in the real world so not
necessarily inflicted or dis it can
confounding exist can be injected can be
created to politically abuse and
manipulate but can also be just a
natural thing mind
wrecking um mind wrecking is a
deliberate uh
uh technique so whereby the
psychological abuse is inflicted with
Del libery so there um there are
several uh examples which are not
discussed here but stalking intercepting
fabricating circumstances or negating
the truth or uh obliging to conform to
certain behaviors which are not logical
or not inine with the value acceptable
values and a number of other things they
all designed to mind black people um
generally temper tempering with
information or behavior to cause
distress that this is done deliberate
and this is
Criminal uh it's criminal but there are
no instruments to handle uh mind mind
wrecking practices which are Wily uh
adopted by abusers in a variety of
circumstances including Schools public
schools or a
workplace or
administrations they're all they all
happen this mind wrecking happens behind
closed door nobody will know this is
happening it's never
documented uh you only know that you get
out of the meeting or out of the room
and your mind is
BL and you don't know what to make of
what just happen or how to react and
very often this disorientation
is uh moment of disorientation is used
to to make you do or say something that
uh is uh not what you would normally do
or say um so once a person an individual
knows that a certain circumstance is not
natural um or not
right uh then mind wacking occurs they
they're in a situation which cannot
possibly be and they don't know what to
make of they or how to respond
then uh on a you know as a as if this if
this continues or it's um kind of
becomes a normality then people become
paranoid schizophrenic or at least very
nervous unable to function
normally may start suffering from
cognitive impairment possibly somatize
or become ill uh even some limbs may
start shrinking so there is a a way to
say that your mind or mental health for
mental
well-being uh leaves visible traces in
leaves an imprint on the brain and the
Brain in turn controls the rest of the
body so sometimes certain malfunctions
or dysfunctions appear in the body that
are attributable directly
to emotional distress which is
attributable directly to some kind of
inflicted deliberate circumstance which
has being created uh this is currently
under
research so
um adversarial
tactics
so
the psychological abusers are may not be
your friends but they can be nice to you
so you you actually in a in a classical
mind rate you don't know what to make of
them
they're nice but they may have alior
motives for being nice
so you know reminds me of
the of
the what it called the big bad wolf you
know the wolf which disguises as um as
grandma and really nice and said oh you
know come here and and but he just
wanted to eat you so uh this
um psychological abusers when I say they
I normally refer to psychological
abusers they're expert in criminal
intell they
know how to Target weaken and Crush
their targets they know their subjects
but they giving the appearance that
they're trying to
help um and they're highly trained and
use every possible means uh to achieve
their goals which is to obliterate your
will some cases or your position or get
you out of the picture they're
professionals they do not care about the
mental stability and human
rights they're experienced and they know
how to hide their tracks so they will
often commit some crime and then pretend
that they they didn't in fact you did um
they use distort manipulate and they
have your friends back this is an
important Point uh so very often they
control your social networking some way
uh because everyone depends on everyone
on everything else they they cannot get
to you directly or when they cannot or
even when they can they will always
ensure that um people around you will be
influ they can influence people around
you whether it's friends or
family they form a front now this thing
is very interesting of
how
um
the you know the political abusers uh on
a on scale when they act in an organized
way
they they form a front like uh they they
know how
to uh create U uh a view of reality that
is consistent through for example there
is the the case of the woman who
rejected uh specific uh the acceptance
of a specific individual who turned up
at her doorstep demanding attention and
she didn't open the door but the next
day none of her friends would say hello
to her everyone would just look away and
um and she couldn't figure out what was
going on until she realized that this
person was particularly influential and
has managed to uh Cut Her Off from
society because she did not accept
accept the uh accept opening the door
without this person being particularly
announced and uh so you know and this is
an example but uh there are other
examples of uh Society punishing you as
a whole for some behavior that Society
considers unacceptable and it is the wol
back tactics like you know like the the
tribe the whenever somebody disobeys the
rules of the tribe the the person this
person becomes uh is not accepted by the
tribe anymore and they have to go and
live on their own end first so this is a
very animal social behavior um of uh
using the social network
to agree on a line and then
sustaining very often uh this is used as
a form of psychological abused so
Society is not fair can be unfair
um the target may not be a person so
it's not necessarily the person that
they're targeting but what they
represent in the case of the woman is
that the woman
represents Independence and you know and
you know woman saying no to somebody in
power is not uh considered acceptable is
considered too bold and and therefore
what maybe it was not the woman that was
the target but she what she stood for
you know women's Independence and their
ability to accept or reject uh the visit
um and um but it can also be social
change so maybe the target of the
political uh of the psychological abuse
is not necessarily that person or or
that what is their value but the fact
that this person uh would influence or
bring change
so the
Honeypot case is very interesting so
theyy psychological abusers create
simulations which they
control distort and
manipulate so for example in the case of
researcher someone organizes a
workshop uh or a journal issue and then
when the person who's done the
researcher is a Pioneer in that submits
their work he gets
rejected and then instead they accept
the work of somebody who has plagiarized
the original work and when the plagiar
case is made they say
oh the you know there is no evidence of
plagiarism so what they're saying is is
contrafactual is not true and they're
putting the burden of proof on on the
legitimate researcher supposed
and so obviously anyone in that
circumstance would become demoralized
and and mind wrecked and would just give
up I personally know a lot of
researchers who have G have given up
being researchers because they have been
psychologically abused by the research
establishment and uh there is an
interesting group called
21% which has been set up recently to
tackle bullying in
Academia which is worth looking at 21%
org another case of Honey Pond abusers
plagiarized they invite the author to
submit evidence of plagiar so first they
plagiarized then they contact the person
who's been plagiarized and said oh you
know we have a lawyer can help you send
us the evidence and when they have the
evidence they use the the evidence to
file a defamation case against the
legitimate author so not only they how
do you say
they they abuse him psychologically and
then they damage him material because
this is all part of some kind of
criminal activity that is quite common
in
Academia
um so this case is is a multiple agency
case so for example the person who
invited the to submit
evidence did not know that there was
somebody that he himself had been
instigated by someone who has
intentional intention to file a
defamation case he was just part of the
network and they said oh you know get
this person to submit their evidence to
this website and when the person who's
already been psychologically abused by
being plagiarized says okay I I'll
submit the evidence they submit the
evidence and is used against them the
person who who suggested they submit the
evidence may have not necessarily
know uh that this is what's going to end
like that so it can become very complex
can become very sensitive and it takes
um takes place across multiple
jurisdictions effectively making the
psychological abusers operate above and
beyond the law well above and beyond
there is no nobody can ever figure out
this they isolate alien their
target through networks of social
influence I would say this information
exchange and persuasion resource
diversion resource diversion is very
important they will intercept anyone who
is trying to support or promote the work
of the
Target and they will uh convince them
not to engage with this person on
whatever ground they have using whatever
social network influence they have they
would intercept the resource and diver
it so they would say okay if you need to
work with somebody work for this person
that we know is really good and simply
um resources get
diverted and the target of the political
abuse remains isolated and without
resources sometimes for sustained
periods of time this happens to many
legitimate
researchers to information the abusers
can cause
systematic
isolations their weaken social and
economic decisions their abuse can
impact perception cognition individual
can start losing touch with reality lose
their home access their finan they
forget their password then things start
to go seriously
wrong the social and and Technical
Systems the systemic deviation takes
place and it can be defined as the
behavioral and functional shift of a
system from its intended
purpose so hospitals that kill
patients uh law enforcement agencies
which do not enforce the law quite the
opposite uh States and governments run
by insiders who operate on behalf of
privates democracies governed by
Elites media disseminating information
disinformation very common and a lot
more itic movements which are actually
set up to
S and drive repression so they're saying
oh we are trying to do open science but
in fact they are doing the
opposite um I wrote an article on
systemic deviation the purpose of the
article was to identify characterize
this
phenomenon and then found out that there
are you know many examples like the
examples which I mentioned before here I
just bring up these examples but uh I
found an example in the whistleblowing
community so whistleblowers are those
who expose this cases of
the abuse in organizations and there's
some of the whistleblowing protection
organizations actually have been set up
to catch the Whistle blowers expose
them and by the way I'm part of a
whistleblowing network which people may
join here if they're
interested
um so something that we can learn from
the World War II is how the Nazis
manipulated victims into cooperation so
they managed
to to get
um the Jewish people to uh work for them
in various roles and one thing which I
want to say is that first of all this
happens a lot in psychological abuse
they
get particular individuals to operate or
cover certain roles which are
cooperating
even uh and the the
abuses carried out by cooperat not by
abusers themselves they're just the the
creating the capes but someone else is
carrying out the abuse they get other
people to get their hands dirty and in
the face of
this nais here what they did is that
they didn't give the personal choice
they would either cooperate or they
would
go or they would get gassed or burnt you
know Murder and uh uh so you know it's
not that they history is blaming the
cooperat and they saying oh they
cooperated that's really shame shameful
well maybe they don't didn't know I know
it because I've benefited from firsthand
accounts of people who lived in the
world in the last War World War
II and they were very clear they said
either I got to work for the fascist
party or I would uh die there there was
no
choice some people could choose to die
uh or they managed to escape or but not
everyone could because they had children
maybe or because they didn't have a leg
to they couldn't run so whatever you
know so there were a lot of people who
had to cooperate and some people
cooperating for convenience because it
made their lives more comfortable uh
which is human nature so I'm saying that
history is condemning this situations
but this is happening a lot
psychological
abuse uh someone will hire you and they
will hire uh one of your colleagues and
then they will promote your colleague to
carry out psychological abuse on
you and they will blackmail your
colleague that if they don't carry out
psychological abuse they will also lose
their privileges or their jobs or their
salary this is very common carried out
routinely there are documented
cases
so so yes they have your friends and fam
backs they know how to manipulate social
networks they uh make psychological
abuse just be part of the way things are
we need to evolve methods to identify
and address this uh social manipulation
and
influencing so it's not just the
manipulation of the social network which
is vicious and horrifying is also the
way they first
attack and then so like they do some
wrongdoing h
extort information or get you to do
something wrong or they rob you or
manipulate in some way and
then they talking about the psych the
psychological abusers say that you
attack them their
Specialists to uh create create a crime
and then accuse someone else of
it so this is very common in
universities they hire you and then they
ask you to do something wrong and when
you say no I'm not doing it they say oh
then we s you
because were disrespectful because you
were unable because you did something so
this is I've seen
it and um in particular I've seen how
some people you see how this all this
techniques are used in conjunction so
they hire someone who is in a lower
position either
junior or he's got less experience or
less qualification and they put it on
top of you control you they then Elevate
the junior to a higher position in a
high in a political hierarchy or
organizational hierarchy and then they
blackmail the junior to say get them to
do this um so they effectively they uh
rely on on snipers so they have individ
Jewels who cover certain
roles and this also explains why so many
unethical people or uh incompetent
people are are successful or they're in
positions of power you ever wonder why
there are so many idiots in place in
organizations who cover positions of
power because psychological they play
the role of psychological abusers they
have a
bureaucratic uh role to perform to carry
out the and execute the Pol the
psychological abuse and other forms of
abuses which are not psychological
but so by using these examples I intend
to bring a wider perspective on
political abuse and PS of Psychiatry and
psychological abuse and point to some of
the systemic complexities it is not only
governments that use psychology and
psychiatric contain uh and or obliterate
or wipe out opponents can actually be
anyone it could be even a family member
or you know a colleague uh given the
right uh mind set so they need to be
adversarial unethical uh and they need
to have the right
motive
um and sometimes even some people carry
out psychological
abuse with a good intention even they
think that's the way that these people
operate this the way they being brought
out to abuse they don't realize they
think they're maybe even doing something
good for you by cering you to to follow
a certain uh Avenue that they think is
the right
one
[Music]
so here finally we get to the
information and knowledge uh Society
so Society is uses psychology and uh to
a lot and
uh they use psychology to impact the
mental health and wellbeing of
individuals and steer
narratives so who who are these who are
these abuser the psychological abuser
they are either coalitions of
individuals that manipulate Society
Allah Eon Echelon I don't know how to
pronounce it at the highest level it
could be you know that there is someone
who has access to everybody's
information and they know how to use it
they can spy they can obtain information
they can use it to make or break an
individual they can give this person the
best job in the world and make them rich
and fi they can also crush them and
Destroy them make them miserable and
crazy but they can also be just friends
and family uh clueless individuals
people who don't know they're just doing
they're just part of they go with the
flow they could be individuals in good
faith because uh manipulating reality
has always been part of what they've
been brought up to do or it could be
some people who have a good
reason uh they they may not realize that
manipulation can make have an impact on
somebody's
well-being uh it could be someone who
loves you a powerful disgruntled Suiter
uh who is using his network of friends
to uh make their target
uh stable so that they will seek their
protection or they will cons consider
their proposal or whatever
um they could be deviated part of law
enforcement
agencies uh we know that unfortunately
every organization has its Dark Side
could be
opponents business
competitors uh people who are envious
people who may have some to
gain you know Society is made up
dishonest people people who are
just uh evil like they take pleasure in
in causing harm like the children who
torture
frogs could be some idiot a bully it
could be someone who's trying to prevent
you from changing the world so this is a
very interesting case of if you are
right if you are not crazy you stand for
something which turns out to be true
and prove everything else potentially
wrong then you are a target of
psychological abuse they're going to
come and get they're going to take you
down they're not going to let you do it
uh because they're trying to preserve
the order as the established order of
things the way history and the world has
always been so you may wonder how come
the world is is in this State and it is
in this state because through
psychological abuse we've been
fooled history and people are are being
deceived
routinely uh this is one of the reasons
why I think this talk is important to me
to bring this out I figure
this uh variety of scenarios so these
this uh psychological abusers
are sometimes even good guys uh who do
the wrong thing for whatever reason it
could be people who are clueless there
are a number of scenarios and somebody's
trying to harm you with this information
that they gather somebody may not try to
harm you they just have information and
that's it and they're not using or using
it correctly but there are people who
are super pars
like they have ways of
influencing the wrongdoers to harm you
and they have ways to influence the
people people who are say enforce the
laws or to protect you or to make sure
these people don't harm you but they
themselves are uh not visible they are
uh how do they say behind the
scenes and they have the ability to to
influence either these uh scenarios and
they are the I think the most dangerous
uh people the ones who because they P
the strings whatever way they suit them
they are not accountable they are not
visible and uh they're the ones that
nobody is going to ever catch uh and
that there is no method no research no
system view that will ever but we know
that they exist because their influence
is visible um when you create a system
where certain dependencies are made
visible then you know well if this
happens you me somebody must have been
there to tell them and sometimes this
influence is as you
say benevolent like you know you have an
informant who Wars you they come out and
say what watch your back they watch it
back somebody say okay I'm G to try I'm
G to tell you that somebody is St R and
and that's okay but sometimes the same
people are the ones who are actually
going to set up St the studing and you
will never really know you you only
because you know all you could do at
that time was one and so and these are
the people where this is where uh evil
is uh resides a lot because it's not
visible is not their their motives and
their Dynamics are not uh
apparent so why why why why are this the
psychological abusers doing this they
consider that psychological abusers are
considering your worldview
unacceptable they just think that you
cannot possibly exist or even if you do
exist you
should you should
not oh my gosh I've lost
it that you should not be allowed to
influence us with these
ideas because maybe they've seen you at
work and they see that you know want you
say something that is true and Truth is
exciting and it will change people minds
and behavior then they say not not this
person is going to get after the picture
ASAP and they make sure you never
influence
anybody in some cases they're just
following orders a lot of the
psychological
abusers actually they they're just doing
what what they're told very majority of
people in this do what do as they told
or as they're persuaded they're told
they're informed they're built to
operate in a certain way they're
indoctrinated basically and this
indoctrination is very relevant in the
case of the psychiatric
abuse so basically we don't know
whether it's a communism is the fascism
or we're just indoctrinated to believe
that a certain View is is is right and
then we uphold that view and we will
pursue uh the to establish that view uh
without being critical so this is why
being critical but in some cases a lot
of people are just are just following
what they're they're just doing what
they're taught some cases they're doing
what they order or told but in some
cases they're just doing what they have
been convinced that is the right thing
to do whether they're wearing the red
scarf or whether they're wearing the
black scarf um sometimes is economic
Financial ideological
motives sometimes they're doing the you
political abusers just systematically
want to eradicate certain views from
society because they would bring change
as in the case of Nicola Tesla but also
in the case of religious or political
figures um you know when people start
acting out of their
own uh individual mindset they can
become dangerous and disruptive and so
they are
targeted uh but also just because of
General ignorance because of bullying is
accepted there is cruelty in society
somebody wants something you
have this world has been dominated by
brigands and robbers you know nobody's
safe very few
places whenever you have whether your
intelligence and invention or happiness
or your smile they want they want to Rob
VI of that they want to control your
mind um they're angry or just they're
angry they're just angry and they
manifest their anger by uh carrying
abuses on others so these are some of
the
motives that are easily identifiable
there may be
others so we're looking at psychological
warfare uh to break the world's
fight uh to render person favorably
disposed to one's
position
brainwashing so this is an established
practice
well so information communication are
directly uh responsible for
Behavior psychological abuse depends on
information um and social systems
uh this has been done by policy you
rumor spreading gossip false information
de or even by legislation in the age of
social networks it is even easier to
manipulate information networks now
there is
technology in uh artificial intelligence
uh one of my fields of uh practi is
knowledge presentation which is a long
uh story to discuss but basically this
representation consists of
labeling true content or truth is false
or saying that something true is false
and saying something that is false is
true and this this is misrepresentation
is used in all of the techniques that we
have looked at earlier but also used in
a and then again a long body of work
will follow on this
representation
um AI can be used to reinforce
psychological abuse in many ways in many
ways there is a good paper here which I
suggest uh as a starting point there is
a interesting body of
literature so in some occasion this is
very important it is there could be
agencies or there could be somebody
trying to uh drive you mad by acquiring
information about you and manipulating
it to Mak you aware that somebody's
watching you or by simply influencing
your behavior your social network to
talk to you not talk to you or
plagiarize you not PL
whatever but in uh increasingly there is
algorithms who are doing
so
we should be aware that in many cases is
the information network from which we
depend like Google Google mail Gmail
Google search YouTube all of these
are somehow orchestrated to function
based on uh information that you give
like uh your
yours keyword search it
searches Google picks up your search and
creates a view of the world that adapts
to your to your inquiry and to your
curiosity and and then you start
becoming a little bit eventually maybe
you're not being spied on but your
perception is and world view is being
wrapped around you by an algorithm and
this is something we should be so we
don't know to what extent somebody when
we use information technology there is a
very fine line between someone spying on
you which could be the
case and actually a system being
designed to extra information from you
uh throw it back to you uh to uh
uh to build a a model of the world
around you and your expectations and
your and your vision so but there is
very big psychological component in how
this
happens going back to uh the chapter we
should
always look at
the we should not
forget to balance the possible paranoia
is it real is it someone sping my
mind uh deliberately or is it just
happening because that's the way things
are uh and uh we should be aware of that
and possibly accept that both can be
true handling
complexity so the more we understand the
bigger the picture we we we get then the
more vulnerable we are to mental health
um vulnerabilities crisis so sometimes
the reality is so uh complex and
sometimes reality is so uh
painful that um we either
find coping mechanisms or we C we suffer
from mental uh mental
unwellness uh luckily in information
technology in complex systems we have
Frameworks that help us to handle
complexity uh I just point to one of the
first Frameworks that became popular uh
by David Snowden uh this was however
many years go maybe more than 20 so uh
by now maybe this is not enough as
complexities have increased we have uh C
Loops
diagrams that can help us navigate
complexities uh
but there are many more Frameworks to
handle complexity depending on the the
case uh again I don't have time to
discuss them more here
but there is no single way to
characterize or defeat psychological
abuse um the history of humanity is
built on
abuse abuse Builds on deceit the nature
of Deceit is deceiving uh the psychology
plays a role and the whole thing is is
mind wrecking by itself just thinking
about it and psychologically can be
emotionally very uh afflicting so we
must continue to hope for better world
uh towards work towards the evolution of
Consciousness and to recognize the
better things these talks contribute
some
understanding to scenarios of
psychological
abuse and places the topic in the
context of complex systems and
artificial intelligence future
work includes possibly a framework to
manage
complexity uh designed for psychological
abuse for understanding and tackling
psychological abuse this could be very
important
contribution so we have Frameworks to
tackle complexity in various fields in
systems in design
organizations but we could use one of
these tools for uh understanding and
addressing the psychological abuse how
long before psychological abuse and
misuse of
information continue to go unnoticed uh
so we need to learn how to identify
them and uh anyone interested in uh in
developing such a framework or in
collaborating on this topic in uh any
other
way is uh very welcome to get in touch
with
me uh I look forward to comments and
maybe have a Q&A session or chat getting
touch anytime thank you
bye